Marketing Drives Results With A Focus On ProblemsWhen
the British ruled India, many Indians
accepted to work under their policy, and they did not try to rebel against the British for
their presence in Indian lands; They recognized the benefits of British rule. What
was the factor that made Indians accept the
British government? The perception about
British-policies (about trading, pay-scale, and positioning in the military) had been
done through various marketing channels in such a way that it brainwashed people of the nation, and many were ready to accept the British. So the Marketing is like fire when smartly
handled; it can destroy your enemies, but when not it can burn you.  Marketing is to design and develop a pathway from product or service to the customer through a product, price, place and promotion strategies. Marketing depends on a variety of parameters that can be classified broadly, boiling down to vital three. These are ‘What type of customer are marketing team is focusing on (based on gender, age, location, customer-class) (W1)’, ‘What are Product Specification or Applications you need to bring in front of customer (W2)’, ‘What is your Product Promotion flow path (W3)’, ‘How much time it takes to convey product information to customer (H1)’. These criteria are what I call ‘3W1H’ forms. These basics need to be taken care of while developing a marketing strategy for the upcoming product. However, are they enough? No. There is one more parameter called the Feedback mechanism (FM). Generally, machines use the feedback mechanism to check output generated is as per input is given or not and if it is not, the input is corrected to get the required output. When it comes to human beings, he/she is surrounded by multiple products daily through social media, TV advertising and so forth. Slight uncertainties on either side in observation can make a positive or negative impact on the product on the consumer’s mind. In the feedback mechanism, the marketing team needs to answer only one question “What kind of product image built in the customer mind through promotional activities?” If the product image not built as per expectation, then management has to review and work on 3W1H, as discussed earlier. So let’s elaborate how 3W1H approach works along with feedback mechanism. For
the last factor (H1) time, the obvious question that comes to mind is that ‘Is time for advertising matters?’, While
watching the TV when an advertisement appears,
many times we change the channel instead of
watching the whole ad or ignore it altogether. You do have an option of ‘Skip ad’ when you watch anything online, so one must decide how much time is required
to deliver product information during its
promotion? Delivering product information
in less time, may create the possibility that the customer will watch it so it
can result in attracting more customers. So, the content will be the
king in the marketing. However, as one
must have guessed it, this will not work all the time. Other factors like the cost of the product,
application range, type of customer can also affect
the H1. For example, the customer would be
more conscious while watching higher-priced
product broadcast compare to the lower-priced one. So it would take more time
for the marketing team to convince the
customer to buy the expensive good than the lower-priced one.