Will machine replace the human in the future of work?Where is this disruptive technology taking us? Take it or leave it, disruptive technology always creates new jobs much more than depleted jobs. You might notice certain jobs disappearing but those jobs are the jobs that transform humans to robots, to machines, and the technology is creating machines to replace them.  Technology creates the data analysis tools to manipulate and create custom scenarios using artificial intelligence (AI), Big Data and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms to predict and drive consumer behavior. Data Analytics tools, such as Google Analytics , and others are available today for free, and, if used correctly, can help organizations save millions, maybe billions of dollars of sales and marketing.Companies are clearly developing their AI and robotics expertise with the idea that through these technological innovations they’ll be able toOf course, it’s not just machines and creatives working together either. In another example, Amazon has employed more than 100,000 robots in its warehouses to efficiently move things around while it has increased its warehouse workforce by more than 80,000. Humans, in Amazon’s case, do the picking and packing of goods while robots move orders around the giant warehouses, essentially cutting “down on the walking required of workers, making Amazon pickers more efficient and less tired.” Plus, the robots “allow Amazon to pack shelves together like cars in rush-hour traffic because they no longer need aisle space for humans. The greater density of shelf space means more inventory under one roof, which means better selection for customers.”During the next few decades (or maybe sooner), the notion of work and whether it is handled by a human or a virtual being will hinge on predictability. As they are starting to do today, machines will manage the routine while humans take on the unpredictable – tasks that require creativity, problem-solving, and flexibility. In this context, robotics should be seen not only as a means to improve operations efficiency but also to improve the quality of life for workers.Although it is obvious that human factors involved in a work activity impact job automation, it is also true that highly repetitive tasks—and even mechanical ones—are ideal for robots. Besides greater efficiency and speed, automation leads to a lower risk of accidents, greater control and autonomy, and above all, fewer costs for organizations.Although artificial intelligence and machine learning make us believe that robots are endowed with superior intelligence, in fact they don’t yet have the ability to learn from experience and to respond to unknowns. So as things stand, however much processing speed and automatic learning a robot has, it doesn’t beat factors innate to the human brain. Humans are still a very essential part of the process. Think about delivering services to a client. Most customer challenges are routine, but humans play a very important role in addressing new issues, solving them the first time they appear, and then consolidating the process into the system.While machines and humans are placed in proximity,  robots can be expensive, but this doesn’t apply to all types, especially those based on Robotic Process Automation (RPA), where the development process incorporates algorithms that significantly reduce costs.Moreover, think of how domestic robots—be it a vacuum cleaner, a lawn mower or a pool cleaner—are increasingly part of our daily lives. This level of consumption that robotics has attained makes it affordable to automate tasks in modern homes to obtain greater control, security and comfort.The division between humans and machines has been clear – I’m here, the machine is there – but that boundary is getting fuzzier. Smart prosthetics fuse seamlessly with our bodies, making up for lost limbs or providing additional strength, stability, or resilience, as seen in exoskeletons donned by assembly line workers.We use our smartphones symbiotically, but what if they were integrated directly into our bodies? Think a smartphone in the form of a contact lens capable of transparently delivering augmented reality images straight to the brain. Think it sounds like science fiction? Think again. The first prototypes have already been built.Soon, brain-computer interfaces could become seamless as well, creating a new synergistic relationship between the cloud and us. At that point, the question of who knows what would be moot; you ask me a question and I know the answer. Sometimes that answer will be stored in my own neural circuitry, but most of the time it would come from the connection of my neurons to the web. Our brain’s decision process is influenced by the way it has been “educated” by the cultural context. These external factors are influencing our decision processes to the point that in certain situations, we can legitimately claim that influence has been so strong that our brains can’t be held accountable for the choices made. The point I’m trying to make is that we humans are in symbiosis with our cultural environment and the tools – both physical and conceptual – that we have been taught to use. My guess is that the transformation will be subtle.This isn’t a win-or-lose situation. We’re going to wind up as a partner to our smarter machines, and that partnership will be fostered by our augmentation through technology. Machines will play an essential role in this augmentation and, as with any successful technology, they will fall below our level of perception. In the end, the revolution will be silent and invisible.